README.md, before:

# Peppermint Sparkles

## About

**_Peppermint Sparkles_** (_**sparkles** for short_) is a simple, zero-knowledge service and CLI client backed by a configurable key/value datastore. The current storage options are:

* [bolt datastore](https://github.com/boltdb/bolt)
* [redis](https://redis.io/)

The purpose of **_Peppermint Sparkles_** is to provide a configuration / secrets service, _for_ services, with encryption in mind. Each _secret_ is stored against a **sha256** key based on an application name and environment. Note, encrytion is **_on_** by default. `-encrypt=false` must be used if there is a desire to _not_ encrypt a value.

Currently, encrypted data uses [PGP](http://www.pgpi.org/doc/pgpintro/) encryption. If a token/passphrase is not provided by the user, a base64 encoded UUIDv4 is generated client-side at the time of encryption and displayed **_only_** once the configuration has been successfully stored.  The encryption token is **_not_** stored anywhere within the **_Peppermint Sparkles_** client, service, or datastore. If the token is lost, it **_can not_** be recovered nor can the data encrypted with said token. The tokens must be stored in a safe, secure place and redundancy is recommended to prevent any lost configuration / secret data. It is also _not_ advised to reuse the same token for multiple environments and / or configurations.

**_NOTE_**: By design, there is no option to list out all apps / secrets. A request to the service **_must_** include the secret ID or the app name / environment combination.
---

## Peppermint Sparkles Helper

A helper Docker container has been created for integration patterns. Use and examples are available:

* [Concourse](ci/README.md)

---

## Building

The simplest way to build is to use [**_honey-do_**](https://github.com/elliottpolk/honey-do) and **_Docker_**. By default, running **_honey clean build_** will build the binary (for Linux distros).

For manual builds, this has a dependency on the [Go](https://golang.org) toolchain. Ensure Go is installed or you have the appropriate _Docker_ image ([golang:latest](https://hub.docker.com/_/golang/)).

```bash
# localhost install of go
$ go build -o $GOPATH/bin/psparkles -ldflags "-X main.version=v2.0.0"

# Docker example
$ docker run --rm -it -v $GOPATH:/go -w /go/src/git.platform.io/oa-montreal/peppermint-sparkles golang:latest /bin/bash -c 'go build -o $GOPATH/bin/psparkles -ldflags \"-X main.version=v2.0.0\"'
```

For additional build help and ideas, review the `Honeyfile.yml`

---

## Running

**_Peppermint Sparkles_** can be run in either _client_ or _server_ mode.

```bash
# client
$ psparkles -h
NAME:
   psparkles - Server and client for managing super special secrets 🦄

USAGE:
   psparkles [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]

VERSION:
   v2.1.0

COMMANDS:
     get, ls, list                  retrieves secrets
     set, add, create, new, update  adds or updates a secret
     delete, del, rm                deletes a secret
     server, serve                  start the server
     help, h                        Shows a list of commands or help for one command

GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   --help, -h     show help (default: false)
   --version, -v  print the version (default: false)

COPYRIGHT:
   Copyright © 2018 Manulife
      
###
# server
$ psparkles serve -h
NAME:
   psparkles server - start the server

USAGE:
   psparkles server [command options] [arguments...]

OPTIONS:
   --port value, -p value               HTTP port to listen on (default: "8080") [$PSPARKLES_HTTP_PORT]
   --tls-port value                     HTTPS port to listen on (default: "8443") [$PSPARKLES_HTTPS_PORT]
   --tls-cert value                     TLS certificate file for HTTPS [$PSPARKLES_TLS_CERT]
   --tls-key value                      TLS key file for HTTPS [$PSPARKLES_TLS_KEY]
   --datastore-addr value, --dsa value  address for the remote datastore (default: "localhost:6379") [$PSPARKLES_DS_ADDR]
   --datastore-file value, --dsf value  name / location of file for storing secrets (default: "/var/lib/peppermint-sparkles/psparkles.db") [$PSPARKLES_DS_FILE]
   --datastore-type value, --dst value  backend type to be used for storage (default: "file") [$PSPARKLES_DS_TYPE]
   --help, -h                           show help (default: false)

# assumes a redis instance is running on localhost:6379
$ psparkles serve -dst redis
```

### setting a new secret
There are 3 different ways to add a secret:

* `-s <value>` flag
* `-f <full/path/to/file>` flag
* _"piping"_ the results into the command

```bash
$ cat secret.json | psparkles set --addr http://localhost:8080
INFO[0000] token: OTUzMmE1N2QtZjU5MS00N2Y2LWIxZmEtMzBlYzllZjNlYzNj
INFO[0000] secret:
{
   "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
   "app_name": "testing",
   "env": "dev",
   "content": "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCgp3eDRFQndNSUVNU1ZrSjBqMlZ4Z3NINzI0U01ZekE4OUdLbGVUMDMzaGZyUzRBSGtQNkZhcjJYbWEvbnYzWnlNCkVKbmNyT0drcitBcTRPZmhxbC9nYytJYlJRV3k0S2JsOEhSRjVSdUhyb1prN0dPMlcvcTJ4U3FELzNEZWxLZ0wKeEJ6V1hDWjVKSWpnU2VUQTcwNEE3eTNFbVhrWXNLWXlhUUJDNEtMajhCekZMN1Y1a2NIZ24rRTdEdUNnNEhuZwpST1NLVFBIU3NiUXpYeWRYeUxwWU9vWFc0cG0wM1IzaE1UWUEKPUZLVUwKLS0tLS1FTkQgUEdQIE1FU1NBR0UtLS0tLQ=="
}
```

### getting an existing secret with the app name and envrionment

```bash
# encrypted
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 -a testing -e dev
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCgp3eDRFQndNSUVNU1ZrSjBqMlZ4Z3NINzI0U01ZekE4OUdLbGVUMDMzaGZyUzRBSGtQNkZhcjJYbWEvbnYzWnlNCkVKbmNyT0drcitBcTRPZmhxbC9nYytJYlJRV3k0S2JsOEhSRjVSdUhyb1prN0dPMlcvcTJ4U3FELzNEZWxLZ0wKeEJ6V1hDWjVKSWpnU2VUQTcwNEE3eTNFbVhrWXNLWXlhUUJDNEtMajhCekZMN1Y1a2NIZ24rRTdEdUNnNEhuZwpST1NLVFBIU3NiUXpYeWRYeUxwWU9vWFc0cG0wM1IzaE1UWUEKPUZLVUwKLS0tLS1FTkQgUEdQIE1FU1NBR0UtLS0tLQ=="
}

# to decrypt
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 -a testing -e dev --decrypt -t OTUzMmE1N2QtZjU5MS00N2Y2LWIxZmEtMzBlYzllZjNlYzNj
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "{\"user\": \"some_admin\", \"passwd\": \"some_SUPER.Secret#Value\"}"
}
```

### getting an existing secret with the ID

```bash
# encrypted
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 --id fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCgp3eDRFQndNSUVNU1ZrSjBqMlZ4Z3NINzI0U01ZekE4OUdLbGVUMDMzaGZyUzRBSGtQNkZhcjJYbWEvbnYzWnlNCkVKbmNyT0drcitBcTRPZmhxbC9nYytJYlJRV3k0S2JsOEhSRjVSdUhyb1prN0dPMlcvcTJ4U3FELzNEZWxLZ0wKeEJ6V1hDWjVKSWpnU2VUQTcwNEE3eTNFbVhrWXNLWXlhUUJDNEtMajhCekZMN1Y1a2NIZ24rRTdEdUNnNEhuZwpST1NLVFBIU3NiUXpYeWRYeUxwWU9vWFc0cG0wM1IzaE1UWUEKPUZLVUwKLS0tLS1FTkQgUEdQIE1FU1NBR0UtLS0tLQ=="
}

# to decrypt
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 --id fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742 --decrypt -t OTUzMmE1N2QtZjU5MS00N2Y2LWIxZmEtMzBlYzllZjNlYzNj
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "{\"user\": \"some_admin\", \"passwd\": \"some_SUPER.Secret#Value\"}"
}
```


### removing configurations

```bash
# displaying current state just for example
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 -a testing -e dev
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCgp3eDRFQndNSUVNU1ZrSjBqMlZ4Z3NINzI0U01ZekE4OUdLbGVUMDMzaGZyUzRBSGtQNkZhcjJYbWEvbnYzWnlNCkVKbmNyT0drcitBcTRPZmhxbC9nYytJYlJRV3k0S2JsOEhSRjVSdUhyb1prN0dPMlcvcTJ4U3FELzNEZWxLZ0wKeEJ6V1hDWjVKSWpnU2VUQTcwNEE3eTNFbVhrWXNLWXlhUUJDNEtMajhCekZMN1Y1a2NIZ24rRTdEdUNnNEhuZwpST1NLVFBIU3NiUXpYeWRYeUxwWU9vWFc0cG0wM1IzaE1UWUEKPUZLVUwKLS0tLS1FTkQgUEdQIE1FU1NBR0UtLS0tLQ=="
}

# REMOVE
$ psparkles rm -addr http://localhost:8080 --id fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742

# validate for example
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 -a testing -e dev
$

```

---

## TODO

- [ ] Audit Tool
    - [ ] CLI
    - [ ] WebUI
- [ ] Hardware key integration
- [ ] `fly` / _Concourse_ integration

Commit message:

adding note of source fork and license

README.md, after:

# Peppermint Sparkles

## About

**_Peppermint Sparkles_** (_**sparkles** for short_) is a simple, zero-knowledge service and CLI client backed by a configurable key/value datastore. The current storage options are:

* [bolt datastore](https://github.com/boltdb/bolt)
* [redis](https://redis.io/)

The purpose of **_Peppermint Sparkles_** is to provide a configuration / secrets service, _for_ services, with encryption in mind. Each _secret_ is stored against a **sha256** key based on an application name and environment. Note, encrytion is **_on_** by default. `-encrypt=false` must be used if there is a desire to _not_ encrypt a value.

Currently, encrypted data uses [PGP](http://www.pgpi.org/doc/pgpintro/) encryption. If a token/passphrase is not provided by the user, a base64 encoded UUIDv4 is generated client-side at the time of encryption and displayed **_only_** once the configuration has been successfully stored.  The encryption token is **_not_** stored anywhere within the **_Peppermint Sparkles_** client, service, or datastore. If the token is lost, it **_can not_** be recovered nor can the data encrypted with said token. The tokens must be stored in a safe, secure place and redundancy is recommended to prevent any lost configuration / secret data. It is also _not_ advised to reuse the same token for multiple environments and / or configurations.

This is a fork and extension of the open-source project [confgr](https://github.com/elliottpolk/confgr). The original project was created under the MIT lincense and this repo _should_ continue that as a result.

**_NOTE_**: By design, there is no option to list out all apps / secrets. A request to the service **_must_** include the secret ID or the app name / environment combination.
---

## Peppermint Sparkles Helper

A helper Docker container has been created for integration patterns. Use and examples are available:

* [Concourse](ci/README.md)

---

## Building

The simplest way to build is to use [**_honey-do_**](https://github.com/elliottpolk/honey-do) and **_Docker_**. By default, running **_honey clean build_** will build the binary (for Linux distros).

For manual builds, this has a dependency on the [Go](https://golang.org) toolchain. Ensure Go is installed or you have the appropriate _Docker_ image ([golang:latest](https://hub.docker.com/_/golang/)).

```bash
# localhost install of go
$ go build -o $GOPATH/bin/psparkles -ldflags "-X main.version=v2.0.0"

# Docker example
$ docker run --rm -it -v $GOPATH:/go -w /go/src/git.platform.io/oa-montreal/peppermint-sparkles golang:latest /bin/bash -c 'go build -o $GOPATH/bin/psparkles -ldflags \"-X main.version=v2.0.0\"'
```

For additional build help and ideas, review the `Honeyfile.yml`

---

## Running

**_Peppermint Sparkles_** can be run in either _client_ or _server_ mode.

```bash
# client
$ psparkles -h
NAME:
   psparkles - Server and client for managing super special secrets 🦄

USAGE:
   psparkles [global options] command [command options] [arguments...]

VERSION:
   v2.1.0

COMMANDS:
     get, ls, list                  retrieves secrets
     set, add, create, new, update  adds or updates a secret
     delete, del, rm                deletes a secret
     server, serve                  start the server
     help, h                        Shows a list of commands or help for one command

GLOBAL OPTIONS:
   --help, -h     show help (default: false)
   --version, -v  print the version (default: false)

COPYRIGHT:
   Copyright © 2018 Manulife
      
###
# server
$ psparkles serve -h
NAME:
   psparkles server - start the server

USAGE:
   psparkles server [command options] [arguments...]

OPTIONS:
   --port value, -p value               HTTP port to listen on (default: "8080") [$PSPARKLES_HTTP_PORT]
   --tls-port value                     HTTPS port to listen on (default: "8443") [$PSPARKLES_HTTPS_PORT]
   --tls-cert value                     TLS certificate file for HTTPS [$PSPARKLES_TLS_CERT]
   --tls-key value                      TLS key file for HTTPS [$PSPARKLES_TLS_KEY]
   --datastore-addr value, --dsa value  address for the remote datastore (default: "localhost:6379") [$PSPARKLES_DS_ADDR]
   --datastore-file value, --dsf value  name / location of file for storing secrets (default: "/var/lib/peppermint-sparkles/psparkles.db") [$PSPARKLES_DS_FILE]
   --datastore-type value, --dst value  backend type to be used for storage (default: "file") [$PSPARKLES_DS_TYPE]
   --help, -h                           show help (default: false)

# assumes a redis instance is running on localhost:6379
$ psparkles serve -dst redis
```

### setting a new secret
There are 3 different ways to add a secret:

* `-s <value>` flag
* `-f <full/path/to/file>` flag
* _"piping"_ the results into the command

```bash
$ cat secret.json | psparkles set --addr http://localhost:8080
INFO[0000] token: OTUzMmE1N2QtZjU5MS00N2Y2LWIxZmEtMzBlYzllZjNlYzNj
INFO[0000] secret:
{
   "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
   "app_name": "testing",
   "env": "dev",
   "content": "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCgp3eDRFQndNSUVNU1ZrSjBqMlZ4Z3NINzI0U01ZekE4OUdLbGVUMDMzaGZyUzRBSGtQNkZhcjJYbWEvbnYzWnlNCkVKbmNyT0drcitBcTRPZmhxbC9nYytJYlJRV3k0S2JsOEhSRjVSdUhyb1prN0dPMlcvcTJ4U3FELzNEZWxLZ0wKeEJ6V1hDWjVKSWpnU2VUQTcwNEE3eTNFbVhrWXNLWXlhUUJDNEtMajhCekZMN1Y1a2NIZ24rRTdEdUNnNEhuZwpST1NLVFBIU3NiUXpYeWRYeUxwWU9vWFc0cG0wM1IzaE1UWUEKPUZLVUwKLS0tLS1FTkQgUEdQIE1FU1NBR0UtLS0tLQ=="
}
```

### getting an existing secret with the app name and envrionment

```bash
# encrypted
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 -a testing -e dev
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCgp3eDRFQndNSUVNU1ZrSjBqMlZ4Z3NINzI0U01ZekE4OUdLbGVUMDMzaGZyUzRBSGtQNkZhcjJYbWEvbnYzWnlNCkVKbmNyT0drcitBcTRPZmhxbC9nYytJYlJRV3k0S2JsOEhSRjVSdUhyb1prN0dPMlcvcTJ4U3FELzNEZWxLZ0wKeEJ6V1hDWjVKSWpnU2VUQTcwNEE3eTNFbVhrWXNLWXlhUUJDNEtMajhCekZMN1Y1a2NIZ24rRTdEdUNnNEhuZwpST1NLVFBIU3NiUXpYeWRYeUxwWU9vWFc0cG0wM1IzaE1UWUEKPUZLVUwKLS0tLS1FTkQgUEdQIE1FU1NBR0UtLS0tLQ=="
}

# to decrypt
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 -a testing -e dev --decrypt -t OTUzMmE1N2QtZjU5MS00N2Y2LWIxZmEtMzBlYzllZjNlYzNj
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "{\"user\": \"some_admin\", \"passwd\": \"some_SUPER.Secret#Value\"}"
}
```

### getting an existing secret with the ID

```bash
# encrypted
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 --id fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCgp3eDRFQndNSUVNU1ZrSjBqMlZ4Z3NINzI0U01ZekE4OUdLbGVUMDMzaGZyUzRBSGtQNkZhcjJYbWEvbnYzWnlNCkVKbmNyT0drcitBcTRPZmhxbC9nYytJYlJRV3k0S2JsOEhSRjVSdUhyb1prN0dPMlcvcTJ4U3FELzNEZWxLZ0wKeEJ6V1hDWjVKSWpnU2VUQTcwNEE3eTNFbVhrWXNLWXlhUUJDNEtMajhCekZMN1Y1a2NIZ24rRTdEdUNnNEhuZwpST1NLVFBIU3NiUXpYeWRYeUxwWU9vWFc0cG0wM1IzaE1UWUEKPUZLVUwKLS0tLS1FTkQgUEdQIE1FU1NBR0UtLS0tLQ=="
}

# to decrypt
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 --id fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742 --decrypt -t OTUzMmE1N2QtZjU5MS00N2Y2LWIxZmEtMzBlYzllZjNlYzNj
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "{\"user\": \"some_admin\", \"passwd\": \"some_SUPER.Secret#Value\"}"
}
```


### removing configurations

```bash
# displaying current state just for example
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 -a testing -e dev
INFO[0000]
{
 "id": "fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742",
 "app_name": "testing",
 "env": "dev",
 "content": "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBQR1AgTUVTU0FHRS0tLS0tCgp3eDRFQndNSUVNU1ZrSjBqMlZ4Z3NINzI0U01ZekE4OUdLbGVUMDMzaGZyUzRBSGtQNkZhcjJYbWEvbnYzWnlNCkVKbmNyT0drcitBcTRPZmhxbC9nYytJYlJRV3k0S2JsOEhSRjVSdUhyb1prN0dPMlcvcTJ4U3FELzNEZWxLZ0wKeEJ6V1hDWjVKSWpnU2VUQTcwNEE3eTNFbVhrWXNLWXlhUUJDNEtMajhCekZMN1Y1a2NIZ24rRTdEdUNnNEhuZwpST1NLVFBIU3NiUXpYeWRYeUxwWU9vWFc0cG0wM1IzaE1UWUEKPUZLVUwKLS0tLS1FTkQgUEdQIE1FU1NBR0UtLS0tLQ=="
}

# REMOVE
$ psparkles rm -addr http://localhost:8080 --id fb692a0247b37cd4e653e760d729e3a1e4d248498afefdc78ebd9d1b2275ebc30922d603c46cc62e1065d587a7bb0787765b40ca51d8ca9455ca12fbc2f5a742

# validate for example
$ psparkles get -addr http://localhost:8080 -a testing -e dev
$

```

---

## TODO

- [ ] Audit Tool
    - [ ] CLI
    - [ ] WebUI
- [ ] Hardware key integration
- [ ] `fly` / _Concourse_ integration
